Title: One sided imprint
Date: 2020-02-23
Modified: 2020-02-23
Category: misc
Tags: misc
Authors: Hotpotpy
Summary: A few incidents during my commute.


The bus stop near my home is serviced by both local and express buses along my route to the train station.
Today I got on the local bus, which came first. On one of the next local stops, the bus didn't stop by 
the curb. It stopped about a car width's distance from the curb (probably so it can easily go out after
picking up and dropping off passengers). 

A few people got on, and then there was a person with a wheelchaired
individual waving at the bus driver. The bus driver tells the pair and they can't back the bus up, and
that next time, the pair should be close to the bus sign so the driver can see them when they stop the bus
(they were by the chairs and next to the few people that got on the bus before). 

There was a pause because
the pair wanted the bus to come closer to the curb (through hand motions), and the driver was telling the
pair to either go towards the bus (which would mean rolling the wheelchair off the curb), or wait for the
next bus. It didn't help that the pair couldn't really understand English (the bus driver went to a
person on the bus to translate the message after the pair got on). 

The pause probably wasn't that long (less than 5 minutes?),
but to the people on the bus, it probably felt like a long time (for those not on their phones, at least).
One person got frustrated with the wait, and walked to the back of the bus. The driver noticed the person 
wanted to go out, let the doors open on the back, and the person forcefully pushed the door as it was 
being automatically opened. 

On another incident several days ago, I was on the escalator in the morning. People usually wait on the
right side of the escalator, and leave the left side open for people to rush up the escalators if they want.

There was one individual ahead of me with a luggage (a tourist?), and was occuping the middle of the step.
A person behind that wanted to move up said something to the luggage person, and the luggage person moved 
to the right. The exchange must not have been friendly enough, because I heard the luggage person say
something to the effect of 'you should use/go up the stairs then' as the other person walked up. 

A third incident occurred during my bus ride home (different bus). This was a shuttle bus in place of a 
train for a few stops. Usually the bus opens both doors for people to get on, but for this one, only the
front door opened. A group of people waited at the back door, hoping the bus driver would open the door.
I went to the front and managed to get in before the bus was at full capacity. I noticed the bus driver
was arguing with a person with a kid/baby in a stroller. The bus driver insisted that the stroller cannot
be brought in the bus unless it was folded, and it looked like the person did not want to. Like 
the other bus incident, the quarrel was short, but it probably felt like a long time for some people.
Another transit employee that was managing the crowds came over to see what was going on and help resolve
the situation. This wasn't the first time I saw this, and I knew strollers had to be folded before
boarding the bus.

Eventually the person gave in and folded the stroller. I didn't get a good look at the kid/baby. If it
was a kid and the kid was old enough, the kid could get up on their own, but if it was a baby, then the 
person would need to pick up the baby or have someone help in order to fold the stroller.
The bus driver then closed the front door without letting more people in (the bus was filled but not 
crowded/overcrowded). More people could have gotten on, but maybe the bus driver was delayed/on a 
schedule and had to go.

I was merely an observer of these three incidents, and if I didn't write about them now, I would probably
forget about them over time. I would forget the escalator incident first before it was the shortest. When
people ride the bus for a long time, who doesn't experience some sort of incident out of the norm?
But for the individuals involved, maybe it had a non-trivial impact to them. If I assume the luggage 
individual was a tourist, then the person would have a bad impression of New Yorkers (however wrong or
right he was in that situation). If not a tourist, that would be a bad start for the person's day. 

Regarding the first bus incident, maybe the bus driver thought they were just doing their job, but to the 
pair with the wheelchair, that bus driver was mean and would color the pair's perception of people
similar to the bus driver. In the second incident, maybe the stroller person was  not the first person
that the bus driver had to talk to about the stroller. I imagine the interaction left a deeper impact to
the stroller person than the bus driver.

I can remember many experiences where I was a participant in such interactions. But my memory of that
set of interactions is just a subset of all interactions where the incidents left a deep impression in
at least one participant. It would be impossible to know that parameter (percentage). This is also why
sometimes when two people talk about a situation both shared, one could remember about it and one could not.